Edge 133 web platform release notes (Feb 2025) (#3352)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/web-platform/release-notes/133.md

---
title: Microsoft Edge 133 web platform release notes (Feb 2025)
description: Microsoft Edge 133 web platform release notes (Feb 2025)
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: microsoft-edge

> ms.date: 01/31/2025

Reviewer: i might enter changes directly in .md, open for editing, not decided yet.  "Feb" title so assume want Feb date:
```suggestion
ms.date: 02/03/2025
```

---
# Microsoft Edge 133 web platform release notes (Feb 2025)

This article provides information about the new web platform features and updates in Microsoft Edge 133, which was released on February 6, 2025.

To stay up to date and get the latest web platform features, download an Insiders preview version of Microsoft Edge. See [Microsoft Edge Insiders Channels](https://aka.ms/microsoftedge).

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Edge DevTools

> For Edge DevTools updates, see For Edge DevTools updates, see [What's New in Microsoft Edge DevTools](../../devtools-guide-chromium/whats-new/whats-new.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For updates of Edge DevTools, see [What's New in Microsoft Edge DevTools](../../devtools-guide-chromium/whats-new/whats-new.md).
```
imo, don't need "Microsoft" b/c link text has it
@captainbrosset 
i'm likely to make these changes and push commits.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## WebView2

For WebView2, see [Release Notes for the WebView2 SDK](../../webview2/release-notes/index.md).

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Web platform features

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Enabled features

###### Animation.overallProgress

Adds an `overallProgress` property to the JavaScript class [Animation](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Animation).

This property provides authors with a convenient and consistent representation of how far along an animation has advanced across its iterations and regardless of the nature of its [timeline](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/AnimationTimeline).

###### Atomics.pause

> Adds the `Atomics.pause` method to hint the CPU that the current code is executing a spinlock.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adds the `Atomics.pause` method to hint to the CPU that the current code is executing a spinlock.
```
@captainbrosset - fix this ungramm. in this PR, and/or fix an upstream string?

###### CSP hash reporting for scripts

> Complex web application often need to keep tabs of the subresources that they download, for security purposes.

Reviewer: define/expand "CSP"
@captainbrosset

> In particular, upcoming industry standards and best practices (e.g. PCI-DSS v4) require that web applications keep an inventory of all the scripts they download and execute.

Reviewer: @captainbrosset - link PCI-DSS v4?
I don't have a feel yet for what corrections and enhancements / conventions for this relnotes, given the pipeline.

This feature builds on CSP and the Reporting API to report the URLs and hashes (for CORS/same-origin) of all the script resources that the document loads.

###### CSS :open pseudo-class

The `:open` pseudo-class matches `<dialog>` and `<details>` when they are in their open state, and matches `<select>` and `<input>` when they are in modes which have a picker and the picker is showing.

###### CSS Scroll State Container Queries

Use container queries to style descendants of containers based on their scroll state.

The query container is either a scroll container, or an element affected by the scroll position of a scroll container. The following states can be queried:

> * Whether a sticky positioned container is stuck to one of the edges of the scroll box (stuck)
> * Whether a scroll snap aligned container is currently snapped horizontally or vertically (snapped)
> * Whether a scroll container can be scrolled in a queried direction (scrollable)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Whether a sticky-positioned container is stuck to one of the edges of the scroll box (stuck).
* Whether a scroll-snap aligned container is currently snapped horizontally or vertically (snapped).
* Whether a scroll container can be scrolled in a queried direction (scrollable).
```
tech review hyphens @captainbrosset

> A new `container-type:scroll-state` is introduced to allow such containers to be queried.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A new `container-type:scroll-state` has been introduced to allow such containers to be queried.
```

For instance:

```css
#sticky {
  position: sticky;
  container-type: scroll-state;
}

@container scroll-state(stuck: top) {
  #sticky-child { font-size: 75% }
}
```

###### CSS advanced attr() function

Implement the augmentation to `attr()` specified in CSS Level 5, which allows types besides `<string>` and usage in all CSS properties (besides pseudo-element `content`).

Example:

```html
<style>
  div {
     background-color: attr(data-foo type(<color>), red);
  }
</style>
<div data-foo="blue">test</div>
```

###### CSS text-box, text-box-trim, and text-box-edge

To achieve optical balance of text content, the `text-box-trim` and `text-box-edge` properties, along with the `text-box` shorthand property, make finer control of vertical alignment of text possible.

The `text-box-trim` property specifies the sides to trim, above or below, and the `text-box-edge` property specifies how the edge should be trimmed.

> These properties allow developers to control vertical spacing precisely by using the font metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These properties allow you to control vertical spacing precisely by using the font metrics.
```
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/grammar/person#in-general-use-second-person-pronouns-you-your

> Note that the `ideographic` and `ideographic-ink`, two values for the text-box-edge property for CJK, are deferred to future releases due to open issues currently under discussion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the `ideographic` and `ideographic-ink`, two values for the `text-box-edge` property for CJK, are deferred to future releases due to open issues currently under discussion.
```

> Note that the `ideographic` and `ideographic-ink`, two values for the text-box-edge property for CJK, are deferred to future releases due to open issues currently under discussion.

Reviewer: expand/define "CJK"
@captainbrosset

> ###### DOM State-Preserving Move

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###### DOM state-preserving Move
```

> This features adds a DOM primitive (`moveBefore`) that allows moving elements around a DOM tree, without resetting the element's state. This function would be available on ParentNodes, like Element, Document, DocumentFragment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This features adds a DOM primitive (`moveBefore`) that allows moving elements around a DOM tree, without resetting the element's state. This function is available on `ParentNode` nodes, such as `Element`, `Document`, and `DocumentFragment`.
```
tech review removing 's' from ParentNodes & using backticks
@captainbrosset

> When moving instead of removing/inserting, following state such as the following is preserved:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When moving instead of removing/inserting, state such as the following is preserved:
```

> * IFrames remain loaded

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* iframes remain loaded.
```
repo never has IFrames, always iframes, 70 hits in 15 files

> * Active element remains focus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The active element retains focus.
```

## Edge DevTools

For Edge DevTools, see [What's New in Microsoft Edge DevTools](../../devtools-guide-chromium/whats-new/whats-new.md).

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## WebView2

For WebView2, see [Release Notes for the WebView2 SDK](../../webview2/release-notes/index.md).

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Web platform features

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Enabled features

<!-- ---------- -->
###### `Animation.overallProgress`

Adds an `overallProgress` property to the [Animation](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Animation) JavaScript class.

This property provides a convenient and consistent representation of how far along an animation has advanced across its iterations and regardless of the nature of its [timeline](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/AnimationTimeline).

<!-- ---------- -->
###### `Atomics.pause`

Adds the `Atomics.pause` method, to hint to the CPU that the current code is executing a spinlock.

<!-- ---------- -->
###### CSP hash reporting for scripts

> Complex web applications often need to keep a record of the subresources that they download, for security purposes.  In particular, upcoming industry standards and best practices (such as PCI-DSS v4)<!-- todo: link? --> require that web applications keep an inventory of all the scripts they download and execute.

Reviewer: link to PCI-DSS v4

> This feature builds on CSP<!-- todo: expand --> and the Reporting API to report the URLs and hashes (for CORS/same-origin)<!-- todo: punc. --> of all the script resources that the document loads.

Reviewer: expand CSP

> This feature builds on CSP<!-- todo: expand --> and the Reporting API to report the URLs and hashes (for CORS/same-origin)<!-- todo: punc. --> of all the script resources that the document loads.

Reviewer: consider spelling out "CORS/same-origin)"

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/punctuation/slashes - "Don't use a slash as a substitute for or, like product/service. If the UI uses a slash in this way, follow the interface in describing the label, but use or to describe the action in text."

A new `container-type:scroll-state` has been introduced, to allow such containers to be queried.

For example:

```css
#sticky {
  position: sticky;
  container-type: scroll-state;
}

@container scroll-state(stuck: top) {
  #sticky-child { font-size: 75% }
}
```

<!-- ---------- -->
###### CSS advanced `attr()` function

Implement the augmentation to `attr()` that's specified in CSS Level 5, which allows types besides `<string>`, and allows usage in all CSS properties (besides pseudo-element `content`).

Example:

```html
<style>
  div {
     background-color: attr(data-foo type(<color>), red);
  }
</style>
<div data-foo="blue">test</div>
```

<!-- ---------- -->
###### CSS `text-box`, `text-box-trim`, and `text-box-edge` properties

To achieve optical balance of text content, the `text-box-trim` and `text-box-edge` properties, along with the `text-box` shorthand property, make finer control of vertical alignment of text possible.

The `text-box-trim` property specifies the sides to trim (above or below).  The `text-box-edge` property specifies how the edge should be trimmed.

These properties allow you to control vertical spacing precisely, by using the font metrics.

> `ideographic` and `ideographic-ink`, two values for the `text-box-edge` property for CJK,<!-- todo: expand CJK --> are deferred to a future release.

Reviewer: expand "CJK"

<!-- ---------- -->
###### DOM state-preserving Move

This feature adds a DOM primitive (`moveBefore`) that allows moving an element around in a DOM tree, without resetting the element's state.  This function is available on `ParentNode` nodes, such as `Element`, `Document`, and `DocumentFragment`.

When moving an element instead of removing or inserting an element, state such as the following is preserved:

* iframes remain loaded.
* The active element retains focus.

> * Popovers, fullscreen dialogs,<!-- todo: windows? --> and modal dialogs remain open.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Popovers, fullscreen windows, and modal dialogs remain open.
```
was "fullscreen remain open"

* CSS transitions and animations remain running.

<!-- ---------- -->
###### Expose the `attributionsrc` attribute on `<area>`

For Attribution Reporting, the `attributionsrc` attribute was already unintentionally processed on `<area>` elements, due to code shared with `<a>`, which intentionally supported that attribute.

For completeness, the attribute on `<area>` is exposed with identical syntax and semantics to `<a>`, and without changing the previous processing.  When an `<area>` tag with an `attributionsrc` attribute is navigated, the foreground request may register navigation sources and, if the attribute is non-empty, one or more background requests will likewise be able to register navigation sources.

<!-- ---------- -->
###### Expose coarsened cross-origin `renderTime` in element timing/LCP (regardless of TAO)

> <!-- todo: expand 'TAO' -->

Reviewer: consider expanding TAO

<!-- ---------- -->
###### WebAssembly memory64 proposal

The memory64 proposal adds support for linear WebAssembly memories larger than 2^32 bits.  This proposal provides no new instructions, but instead extends the existing instructions to allow 64-bit indexes for memories and tables.

<!-- ---------- -->
###### WebGPU: 1-component vertex formats (and `unorm8x4-bgra`)

Adds additional vertex formats that weren't present in the initial release of WebGPU, due to lack of support, or old macOS versions that are no longer supported by any browser.  The 1-component vertex formats let the application request only the necessary data, when previously, the application had to request at least 2x more data for 8-bit and 16-bit data types.  The `unorm8x4-bgra` format makes it slightly more convenient to load BGRA-encoded vertex colors while keeping the same shader.

<!-- ---------- -->
###### X25519 algorithm of the Web Cryptography API

> The X25519 algorithm provides tools to perform key agreement by using the X25519 function that's specified in RFC7748.<!-- todo: link? -->  The `X25519` algorithm identifier can be used in the `SubtleCrypto` interface to access the implemented operations: `generateKey`, `importKey`, `exportKey`, `deriveKey`, and `deriveBits`.

Reviewer: link to RFC7748
